# Introduction and Prerequisites

This hands on lab is a deployment of ACM, and OpenShift on AWS, GCP, and Azure, via Red Hat Advanced Cluster Manager. This lab will have you changing through quite a few interfaces: GCP, AWS, Azure, OCP, your terminal, ACM. We will let you know where you need to be at the start of each section.

This guide is a reference, you will need your own accounts and make substitutions where needed below. 

## General Prerequisites

You will need the following items to be able to complete the lab from beginning to end.

### DNS
In the case of the Solutions Engineering team we have a registered DNS zone `sysdeseng.com` that is hosted by AWS route53. From there, each engineer has a subdomain called `<engineer>.sysdeseng.com` to which everything else should be organized by. To provision clusters on other providers, we have to delegate zones to each public cloud provider: GCP and Azure. For this, we will conver in more detail, but in general you will create a NS record on AWS under the `<engineer>.sysdeseng.com` zone that points to the zone created on GCP or Azure. So, this might look like `<engineer>-gcp.<engineer>.sysdeseng.com` and `<engineer>-azure.<engineer>.sysdeseng.com` and `<engineer>-aws.<engineer>.sysdeseng.com`. This helps us stay organized for validation purposes.

### ACM Access

* Access to the [open-cluster-management](https://github.com/open-cluster-management) github repo
* Access to the [open-cluster-management](https://quay.io/open-cluster-management/multiclusterhub-operator-index) Quay repo
* The ability to deploy an OpenShift cluster with appropriately sized worker nodes

### Cloud Accounts

You will need access to the following accounts with the proper permissions.

* GCP
* AWS
* Azure

---

**Continue to [Provision OCP on AWS - Creating an OCP Hub Cluster](./2.md)**

**Go [Home](../README.md)**
