# Provision OCP Spoke on AWS

## Prereqs

* AWS Access Key
* AWS Access Secret
* OpenShift Pull Secret
* SSH Public and Private Key

## Create the AWS Cloud Connection

**NOTE:** You should be on the ACM UI here.

1. Log into the ACM console with the OCP kubeadmin user and password. If you don't know the URL, grab it with the following command.

```
oc get route multicloud-console -n open-cluster-management
```

2. Use the top left hamburger menu to expand and browse to `Automate Infrastructure` and then `Clusters`.

3. On the top navigation pane, click `Provider Connections`. 

4. Click `Add Connection`.

5. From the `Provider` dropdown menu, fill out the following.

* Choose `Amazon Web Services`.
* Connection Name `aws-connection`
* Namespace `Default`
* Provide the rest of the information as requested.

6. Click `Create`. You will be redirected to the `Provider Connections` screen.

## Create the Cluster

1. On the top navigation pane, click `Clusters`. 

2. Click `Add Cluster`

3. Click `Create Cluster`

4. Provide a cluster name of `<engineer-aws-spoke-1>`

5. Provide a `Base DNS domain` of `<engineer>.sysdeseng.com`

6. The Red Hat OpenShift distribution should already be checked, select `Amazon Web Services` as the platform to provision to.

7. Select a `Release Image` of either OCP 4.3 or OCP 4.4.

8. Choose the `Provider Connection` that you created earlier AWS.

9. Click `Create`.

10. Immediately move the the `Explore` section below and watch `hive` create the cluster.

## Explore the Environments

In this section you will take a look at both the hub cluster and the deployed cluster to see what changes are made so you know what a successful deployment looks like.

### Explore the hub cluster

**NOTE:** You should be on the hub cluster via OCP CLI

1. Log into the OpenShift hub cluster via CLI.

2. When the cluster creation was initiated, it created a namespace on the hub that matches the name of the cluster that you gave it in the previous steps.  Change to that namespace.

```
oc project <cluster-name>
```

3. Look at the logs for hive to watch the install.

```
oc get pods
oc logs -f <engineer>-aws-new-0-2cl6r-provision-zqjlj -c hive
```

4. Upon successful completion, you'll see a message like this.

```
time="2020-04-09T17:27:35Z" level=info msg="install completed successfully" installID=7zrcr6hh
```

### Explore the AWS Spoke Cluster

**NOTE:** You should be on the ACM UI

When the spoke cluster was deployed, the credentials were retrieved by ACM and can be downloaded through the ACM console.

1. Navigate to the `Clusters` window.

2. Click the name of your cluster.

3. On the top right you can click the `Download configuration` dropdown and obtain the cluster `kubeconfig`.

4. In the middle ofthe screen, in the `Details` section, you can reveal the `kubeadmin` password.

**NOTE:** You should be on the Spoke cluster via OCP CLI

1. Log into the OpenShift hub cluster via CLI.

2. When the spoke cluster creation was initiated, it created a namespace on the hub and spoke that matches the name of the cluster that you gave it in the previous steps.  Change to that namespace.

```
oc project <cluster-name>
oc get all
oc get secrets
```

3. Notice that the namespace is empty.

4. Now change to the `multicluster-endpoint` namespace. This is where the agent is that connects back to the hub.

```
oc project multicluster-endpoint
oc get pods
oc get secrets
oc get all
oc describe route endpoint-workmgr
```

---

**Continue to [Provision OCP Spoke on Azure](./4.md)**

**Back to [Provision OCP Hub on AWS](./2.md)**

**Go [Home](../README.md)**
