# Provision OCP Spoke on Azure 

## Prereqs
* OpenShift Pull Secret
* SSH Public and Private Key
* OpenShift Install Binary 
* DNS
* Service Principle JSON output
* Azure CLI client
* Azure account with proper Permissions

## Set up Azure

* Create an Azure account
* Create an initial `Resource Group`
* Configure DNS on Azure

## Configure DNS on Azure

**NOTE:** You should be at the Azure Console

1. In the top search bar in the Azure interface, search for `dns`, then select `DNS Zones` from the results.

2. Click `Add` to create a new Zone.

3. Pick the `Resource Group` that the zone will land in.

4. Provide a `Name` of the zone you want to create. Something like `<engineer>-azure.<engineer>.sysdeseng.com`.

5. Click `Review + Create`.

6. Click `Create`.

7. Once the deployment has succeeded, take a look at the `Deployment Details`, select the zone you just created and copy the value of the `NS record`. It should look like the following.

```
ns1-02.azure-dns.com.
ns2-02.azure-dns.net.
ns3-02.azure-dns.org.
ns4-02.azure-dns.info.
```

8. Move over the the AWS route53 console.

## Configure DNS on AWS route53

**NOTE:** You should be at the AWS Console

1. In AWS, open up the route53 console.

2. Open up the `<engineer>.sysdeseng.com>` zone.

3. On the top navigation menue, click `Create Record Set`.

4. Provide a `Name` of `<engineer>-azure`.

5. Change the `Type`, to `NS`.

6. Copy the NS records from the Azure zone to this NS record.

7. Click `Create`.

## Configure Azure access via CLI

In this section you will configure the Azure CLI and set up a Service Principle.

### Install the Azure CLI

**NOTE:** You should be on your local CLI

1. Install the Azure CLI per your platforms requirements. Fedora requires you to add an Azure repo and install it via `dnf`.

```
sudo dnf install azure-cli
```

2. Configure your Azure CLI environment.

```
az configure
```

### Configure the Service Principle

**NOTE:** You should be on your local CLI

Azure requires a properly configured `Service Principle` to make API calls to it's platform. For this section, you'll need the Azure CLI client and the OpenShift install binary.

1. To create the service principle, follow the existing instructions in the OpenShift Azure installation documentation.

https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.3/installing/installing_azure/installing-azure-account.html#installation-azure-service-principal_installing-azure-account

**NOTE:** _When creating the Service Principle, grab the password that it outputs, you will not see that password again and will have to reset the Service Principle to create a new one._

2. Record the output of the Service Principle creation.

### Create your OpenShift provider JSON file

For this section, you will need the OpenShift installer binary.

1. Take the output of the Service Principle creation to proceed.

2. Create the OpenShift configuration files. Find a directory and execute the following command. When you run the installer, pick `Azure` as the provider, then walk through the rest of the wizard. As a result of this effort, a osServicePrinciple.json file will be created. That file is required input for the Azure Cloud Connection that will be created in the ACM interface.

```
openshift-install create install-config --dir=ocp-azure-config
```

2. Take a look at the `~/.azure/osServicePrincipal.json` file.

3. The rest of the install config files that the installer created can be ignored or discarded.

More information can be found here:

https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.3/installing/installing_azure/installing-azure-default.html#installation-launching-installer_installing-azure-default

## Create the Azure Cloud Connection

**NOTE:** You should be at the ACM console

1. Log into the ACM console with the OCP kubeadmin user and password.

```
oc get route multicloud-console -n open-cluster-management
```

2. Use the top left hamburger menu to expand and browse to `Automate Infrastructure` and then `Clusters`.

3. On the top navigation pane, click `Provider Connections`. 

4. Click `Add Connection`.

5. From the `Provider` dropdown menu, fill out the following.

* Choose `Microsoft Azure`.
* Connection Name `azure-connection`
* Namespace `Default`
* Provide the rest of the information as requested.

6. Click `Create`

## Create the Cluster

1. On the top navigation pane, click `Clusters`.

2. Click `Add Cluster`

3. Click `Create Cluster`

4. Provide a cluster name of `<engineer-azure-spoke-1>`

5. Provide a `Base DNS domain` of `<engineer>-azure.<engineer>.sysdeseng.com`

6. The Red Hat OpenShift distribution should already be checked, select `Microsoft Azure` as the platform to provision to.

7. Select a `Release Image` of either OCP 4.3 or OCP 4.4.

8. Choose the `Provider Connection` that you created earlier for Azure.

9. Click `Create`.

10. Immediately move to the `Explore` section below and watch `hive` create the cluster.

## Explore the Environments

In this section you will take a look at both the hub cluster and the deployed cluster to see what changes are made so you know what a successful deployment looks like.

### Explore the hub cluster

**NOTE:** You should be on your local CLI

1. Log into the OpenShift hub cluster via CLI.

2. When the cluster creation was initiated, it created a namespace on the hub that matches the name of the cluster that you gave it in the previous steps.  Change to that namespace.

```
oc project <cluster-name>
```

3. Look at the logs for hive to watch the install.

```
oc get pods
oc logs -f <engineer>-azure-new-0-2cl6r-provision-zqjlj -c hive
```

### Explore the Azure Spoke Cluster

**NOTE:** You should be on the ACM UI

When the spoke cluster was deployed, the credentials were retrieved by ACM and can be downloaded through the ACM console.

1. Navigate to the `Clusters` window.

2. Click the name of your cluster.

3. On the top right you can click the `Download configuration` dropdown and obtain the cluster `kubeconfig`.

4. In the middle ofthe screen, in the `Details` section, you can reveal the `kubeadmin` password.

**NOTE:** You should be on the Spoke cluster via OCP CLI

1. Log into the OpenShift hub cluster via CLI.

2. When the spoke cluster creation was initiated, it created a namespace on the hub and spoke that matches the name of the cluster that you gave it in the previous steps.  Change to that namespace.

```
oc project <cluster-name>
oc get all
oc get secrets
```

3. Notice that the namespace is empty.

4. Now change to the `multicluster-endpoint` namespace. This is where the agent is that connects back to the hub.

```
oc project multicluster-endpoint
oc get pods
oc get secrets
oc get all
oc describe route endpoint-workmgr
```

---

**Continue to [Provision OCP Spoke on GCP](./5.md)**

**Back to [Provision OCP Spoke on AWS](./3.md)**

**Go [Home](../README.md)**
