# Provision OCP Spoke on GCP

## Prereqs
* GCP Service Account JSON
* OpenShift Pull Secret
* It helps to have a dedicated project on GCP to organize resources
* SSH Public and Private Key

## Download the GCP SA JSON 

**NOTE:** You Should be in the GCP console.

We need a way to interact with the GCP API, and that is done via a GCP Service Account. While the interface for GCP may change, in general, you want to go to the `Service Accounts` section of `IAM & Admin` to get the Service Account JSON info. This section presumes that you do not have an existing service account.

1. In GCP navigate to the `Service Accounts` applet via `IAM & Admin` through the main menu.

2. Click `Create Service Account`.

3. Provide the `Service Account Details` of `name`, `Service account ID` and a `Description`, click `Create`.

4. Select a role of `Owner`. Click `Continue`.

5. Click `Create Key`, and select `JSON`, and then `Create`. Save the file to your computer.

More information can be found here:

https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.3/installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-account.html#installation-gcp-service-account_installing-gcp-account

## Configure DNS on GCP

1. Navigate to the `Cloud DNS` section of `Network Services` via the main menu.

2. Click `Create Zone` to create a new Zone.

3. Provide a `Zone Name` of the zone you want to create. Something like `<engineer>-gcp`.

4. Provide a DNS name of `<engineer>-gcp.<engineer>.sysdeseng.com`, and then provide a `Description`.

5. Click `Create`.

7. Once the deployment has succeeded, take a look at the `Deployment Details`, select the zone you just created and copy the value of the `NS record`. It should look like the following.

```
ns-cloud-b1.googledomains.com.
ns-cloud-b2.googledomains.com.
ns-cloud-b3.googledomains.com.
ns-cloud-b4.googledomains.com.
```

## Configure DNS on AWS route53

**NOTE:** You should be on the AWS console

1. In AWS, open up the route53 console.

2. Open up the `<engineer>.sysdeseng.com>` zone.

3. On the top navigation menue, click `Create Record Set`.

4. Provide a `Name` of `<engineer>-gcp`.

5. Change the `Type`, to `NS`.

6. Copy the NS records from the gcp zone to this NS record.

7. Click `Create`.

## Create the GCP Cloud Connection

**NOTE:** You should be on the ACM console

1. Log into the ACM console with the OCP kubeadmin user and password.

```
oc get route multicloud-console -n open-cluster-management
```

2. Use the top left hamburger menu to expand and browse to `Automate Infrastructure` and then `Clusters`.

3. On the top navigation pane, click `Provider Connections`. 

4. Click `Add Connection`.

5. From the `Provider` dropdown menu, fill out the following.

* Choose `Google Cloud`.
* Connection Name `gcp-connection`
* Namespace `Default`
* Provide the rest of the information as requested. Including the GCP JSON account key.

6. Click `Create`

## Create the Cluster

1. On the top navigation pane, click `Clusters`.

2. Click `Add Cluster`

3. Click `Create Cluster`

4. Provide a cluster name of `<engineer>-gcp-spoke-1`

5. Provide a `Base DNS domain` of `<engineer>-gcp.<engineer>.sysdeseng.com`

6. The Red Hat OpenShift distribution should already be checked, select `Google Cloud` as the platform to provision to.

7. Select a `Release Image` of either OCP 4.3 or OCP 4.4.

8. Choose the `Provider Connection` that you created earlier for GCP.

9. Click `Create`.

10. Immediately move the the `Explore` section below and watch `hive` create the cluster.

## Explore the Environments

In this section you will take a look at both the hub cluster and the deployed cluster to see what changes are made so you know what a successful deployment looks like.

### Explore the hub cluster

1. Log into the OpenShift hub cluster via CLI.

2. When the cluster creation was initiated, it created a namespace on the hub that matches the name of the cluster that you gave it in the previous steps.  Change to that namespace.

```
oc project <cluster-name>
```

3. Look at the logs for hive to watch the install.

```
oc get pods
oc logs -f <engineer>-gcp-new-0-2cl6r-provision-zqjlj -c hive
```

### Explore the GCP Spoke Cluster

**NOTE:** You should be on the ACM UI

When the spoke cluster was deployed, the credentials were retrieved by ACM and can be downloaded through the ACM console.

1. Navigate to the `Clusters` window.

2. Click the name of your cluster.

3. On the top right you can click the `Download configuration` dropdown and obtain the cluster `kubeconfig`.

4. In the middle of the screen, in the `Details` section, you can reveal the `kubeadmin` password.

**NOTE:** You should be on the Spoke cluster via OCP CLI

1. Log into the OpenShift hub cluster via CLI.

2. When the spoke cluster creation was initiated, it created a namespace on the hub and spoke that matches the name of the cluster that you gave it in the previous steps.  Change to that namespace.

```
oc project <cluster-name>
oc get all
oc get secrets
```

3. Notice that the namespace is empty.

4. Now change to the `multicluster-endpoint` namespace. This is where the agent is that connects back to the hub.

```
oc project multicluster-endpoint
oc get pods
oc get secrets
oc get all
oc describe route endpoint-workmgr
```

---

**Continue to [Deploy an Application to each Cluster](./6.md)**

**Back to [Provision OCP Spoke on Azure](./4.md)**

**Go [Home](../README.md)**
