# Configure Load Balancer

Here the HAProxy load balancer will be set up to provide a single point of entry to the Apache server running on each OpenShift cluster.

## Prereqs

* VM on AWS with HAProxy installed. The version of HAProxy used in this lab is 1.8.15 2018/12/13.
* Known OpenShift routes for the applications that were deployed in the previous chapter. These will be used to populate the HAProxy backends.
* It is preferable that you have an elastic IP address associated with a known hostname for your HAProxy instance. This is configured in AWS.
** In this case, it's `haproxy.<engineer>.sysdeseng.com`

## Configure HAProxy

1. Download the following [HAProxy file](../haproxy/haproxy.cfg).

2. Change the bottom of the HAProxy configuration file to reflect the correct DNS names of the routes you have on each cluster for the new applications that were deployed. Following the naming suggestions laid out here, replace the string ENGINEER with your own identifier. 

3. Confirm the HAProxy file is valid.

```
haproxy -c -f /etc/haproxy/haproxy.cfg
```

3. Restart HAProxy. 

**NOTE:** Depending on the firewall configuration, ports may need to be opened.

```
systemctl restart haproxy
systemctl enable haproxy
```


## Test Application Access via HAProxy

1. Ensure the application can be accessed via curl, or a browser.


```
curl http://haproxy.<engineer>.sysdeseng.com/
<center>
<b>
GCP
</b>
</center>

curl http://haproxy.<engineer>.sysdeseng.com/
<center>
<b>
aws
</b>
</center>

curl http://haproxy.<engineer>.sysdeseng.com/
<center>
<b>
azure
</b>
</center>
```

This concludes the lab.

---

**Continue to [Review and Resources](./8.md)**

**Back to [Deploy an Application to each Cluster](./6.md)**

**Go [Home](../README.md)**
